Add MimirKubernetesServiceEndpointsApproachingLimit and MimirKubernetesServiceEndpointsOverLimit alerts (#9381)
grafana/mimir: docs/sources/mimir/manage/mimir-runbooks/_index.md

       $.apps.v1.statefulSet.spec.template.metadata.withLabelsMixin({ [$._config.gossip_member_label]: 'false' }),
     ```

### MimirKubernetesServiceEndpointsApproachingLimit

This alert fires if a Kubernetes service used by Mimir for service discovery is approaching the endpoints limit.

See [MimirKubernetesServiceEndpointsOverLimit](#MimirKubernetesServiceEndpointsOverLimit).

### MimirKubernetesServiceEndpointsOverLimit

This alert fires if a Kubernetes service used by Mimir for service discovery has reached the endpoints limit.

> How it **works**:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
How it works:
```

Reviewer: We only use bold formatting for UI elements, not for emphasis.

> - By default, the Kubernetes control plane creates and manages service endpoints to have no more than 100 endpoints each ([doc](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/services-networking/endpoint-slices/)). You can configure this limit with the `--max-endpoints-per-slice kube-controller-manager` flag, up to a maximum of 1000.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- By default, the `EndpointSlice` objects created and managed by Kubernetes control plane cannot have more than 100 endpoints ([doc](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/services-networking/endpoint-slices/)). You can configure this limit with the `--max-endpoints-per-slice kube-controller-manager` flag, up to a maximum of 1000.
```

> - By default, the Kubernetes control plane creates and manages service endpoints to have no more than 100 endpoints each ([doc](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/services-networking/endpoint-slices/)). You can configure this limit with the `--max-endpoints-per-slice kube-controller-manager` flag, up to a maximum of 1000.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- By default, the Kubernetes control plane creates and manages service endpoints to have no more than 100 endpoints each. Refer to ([EndpointSlices
](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/services-networking/endpoint-slices/)) in the Kubernetes documentation. You can configure this limit with the `--max-endpoints-per-slice kube-controller-manager` flag, up to a maximum of 1000.
```

> - Once a Kubernetes service endpoints list reached the limit, the endpoints are truncated to the limit.

Reviewer 3: Is this how `EndpointSlices` work really? The way I thought about the endpoint-slices since reading the [announcement][1] was that

1. the control plane creates endpoint-slices per service
2. (by default) one endpoint-slice can include up to 100 endpoints (pointers to a pod)
3. when the limit is reached, the control plane creates additional endpoint-slices
4. since then the expectation was that a service can scale to beyond 100K endpoints.

Refer to the original "[Scaling Kubernetes Networking With EndpointSlices][1]" post.

Is this the problem we've encountered somewhere?

[1]: https://kubernetes.io/blog/2020/09/02/scaling-kubernetes-networking-with-endpointslices/

Author: The problem is that the DNS only returns the first 1K, at least that's what we observed. So when you do DNS-based service discovery, you're limited to the first 1K.

> Is this the problem we've encountered somewhere?

It's related to another issue we've observed. I can share more details offline about it.

Reviewer 2: Does it make sense to check if individual endpoint slice has reached 100 limit, if DNS entry can return endpoints from more than 1 slice? Perhaps this alerts needs more investigation before merging.

Reviewer 3: Out of the curiosity, I tried to catch up with the Kubernetes details, and I feel the "How it works" text is confusing here. I don't think there should be a connection between the `--max-endpoints-per-slice kube-controller-manager` and the observed DNS issue. The "1000 entries" problem feels like a coincidence rather than a relation to the `EndpointSlices`. Could it be so that the truncation happened on the client's resolver level (see also [Kubernetes DNS at scale][1])?

[1]: https://gist.github.com/aojea/32aeaa86aacebcdd93596ecb70fcba4f

> - Once a Kubernetes service endpoints list reached the limit, the endpoints are truncated to the limit.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- After a Kubernetes service endpoints list reaches the limit, the endpoints are truncated to the limit.
```

> - Mimir uses some Kubernetes services for DNS-based service discovery. If the endpoints of one of such services is getting truncated, Mimir is unable to discover all pods.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Mimir uses some Kubernetes services for DNS-based service discovery. If the endpoints list of one of such services is getting truncated, Mimir is unable to discover all pods.
```

> How to **fix** it:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
How to fix it:
```

> - Increase Kubernetes `--max-endpoints-per-slice kube-controller-manager` to 1000, if it's currently running with a lower value. Configure the limit in the alert to reflect the new setting.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Increase the Kubernetes `--max-endpoints-per-slice kube-controller-manager` limit to 1000, if it's currently running with a lower value. Configure the limit in the alert to reflect the new setting.
```

Reviewer: If `--max-endpoints-per-slice kube-controller-manager` is a limit, it's good to specify that here. Same if it's a flag, setting, etc.
